[Music]
you see if you if you try your own self
you see trying with Kundalini actually
sympathetic goals interactivity you have
no right on the parasympathetic
parasympathetic is the one which
balances and that is the central path of
sushumna through which the Kundalini has
to rise but if you try anything what you
do is always you can use sympathetic
I'll give an example supposing you are
running fast all right then you can
raise the rate of your heart but you
cannot slow it down it slows down light
itself that is parasympathetic activity
so you just get into sympathetic
activity and by sympathetic activity if
you overdo it
then all these symptoms happens and it's
not that on the contrary chakras go into
quite like this is our left and the
right sympathetic and these are the
centres they get pulled down right and
if they are full like this then you are
harmed so it is it is not an experience
of Kundalini but is of the sentiment
[Music]
no it doesn't go down Kundalini ver goes
down it goes upward always the thing
that comes down is the crease you see
the grace comes down not definitely
Kundalini all always goes upwards and
the grace comes on your sympathetic
which calms you down completely you
become absolutely relaxed beautiful but
the Kundalini itself always goes up it
never comes down but in people it so
happens that Kundalini goes through this
central path now if it is sort of very
much rugged or if it is extremely smooth
due to the mistakes of the Seekers then
it falls down it falls down is a
different point than going like that if
first off then you have to raise it
again and try them again raise it and
title in many people it has to be done
but it can work you will get the
complete knowledge don't you worry now
he has been as you said 18 months but
he's a master of kundunese he can raise
your Kundalini and you are just like him
you will become the same there's no no
problem at all
does having a vertebra out of place in
the spine interfere with the rising of
Kundalini it does to some extent it does
definitely does but we can put a try the
vertebra can be put right and the
Kundalini can be brought in it does so
many things do happen if you have but
you are a person over read if you are
read too many books and the books are in
your head I have to empty that holes I
actually do this work as a profession
and I find that if the subtle center is
fixed the spinal problems just disappear
I used to have three and four
adjustments a week to correct my spine
and now I have none at all so first fix
the subtle within us and then the gross
part the spinal misalignments and so on
we'll just get better
[Music]
what is the first step to
self-realization there is nothing like
first second it's not a course see the
Kundalini it's an awakening within us
which takes place which is like a living
process all right so the Kundalini rises
and shoots off here now some people feel
the Kundalini wobbling down there down
below some people feel it in this town
some people feel it here some people
feel it here but most of them feel it we
are only jutting out like race so you
just can't say what is the first step
depends on how it rises so everybody
doesn't feel the same way so I can't say
that this is the first thing all right
of course first you feel thoughtlessly
aware you become thoughtlessly aware
first thing that should happen to you
when the kundalini crosses this Center
when it comes out of it you start
feeling the cool breeze here and you
start feeling the cool breeze in your
hands and you start feeling the cool
breeze around that's the second stage
where it can go
can anyone be realized without knowing
about Kundalini about mentally need not
know what can be realized of course you
can't be but then you have to tell them
what it is this thing is better to do
that way but there will be very few who
will accept such a situation because
they want to know about everything but
they need not know all that you can
little bit say tell them that there is a
way of getting realization and then it's
like this that even you come to me you
want to have the lights I'll say all
right go there's a switch you put on and
you put on the switch you get the lights
without telling about it but you would
like to know how this light is turned
and then that helps you to create other
lights that's why it is important to
know about Kundalini I would I can do it
without telling you anything about
Kundalini I can raise your Kundalini but
you would not know anything about and
you would not know what it is it has
happened with many who were born
realized they did not know they were
realized Souls and they got lost like I
would say greatest example here not on
the windshield you're not at the wind
she was a realized soul and he got lost
because he didn't know he was a realized
soul he was a higher personality than
others he got lost so many what lost
like that
how can you be lost if the kundalini has
been awakened latest because you see it
is you are not yet fully developed
mature person when you are in an image
or stretch it does happen Kundalini is
when it rises should be surprised in
some people it is just a wee bit just
like a hair just comes up a little
because so difficult to see you the
passage is so block so a little bit
comes up this is what it is it is a
complete realization takes place only
when you are near to be culpa Samadhi
that's the higher state so in the
beginning it just little bit opens up
and one person people do get lost they
do because they have egos they have
super he goes all kinds of things they
do at last so be careful
[Music]
me how on how and where did you receive
the ability to awaken the Kundalini in
them I had it born with it
one can be born with it
but I realized that to give a mass
realization seventh Center has to be
opened first of all that I read on the
fifth of May 1970 and then I realized
that with this happening one can achieve
a masse realization but till that time I
had to understand human beings so by my
subtle methods I tried to understand
what was their problem what chakras they
had in trouble how I have to work out
the permutations and combinations in
such a way that our mas realization can
be achieved
so this amaz realization I started from
that day before that I did not speak
about it because what's the use of
another Bible or another Gita better to
achieve the results unless and until
human beings realize that there are
higher stories of awareness within them
whatever you may tell them they are not
going to understand so first it must be
done they have to realize that there are
higher awareness states which we have to
achieve which we have achieved and then
they can go further my father himself
was a very great evolved soul and he
told me that those who are born on the
10th story shouldn't talk about they
should come down and try to raise the
people at least to the first or second
story so they realize there are stories
beyond because if they just talk about
the 10th story people will think they
are crazy or they'll crucify them
they'll never understand that won't be
practical
but it took some time to understand
human beings there are very complicated
people must say not easy
in your discourse who referred to the
Kundalini as she he said because you are
a woman no no no geez she is the female
side
she's the Shakti she's the female side
that's why the quarrel about women and
men is all falsehood there's nothing
like that they exist together it's like
the moon and the moonlight like the Sun
and the sunlight it's like the God and
the Kundalini it's like the word and the
meaning
yeah it is all-pervading power all right
now when the kundalini rises what she
does she enlightens our subtler side of
her nerves of brain and everything she
enlightens and by that we start feeling
it is the Enlightenment that we get
because of her connection with
all-pervading power
it exists already it exists but you
cannot feel it normally when she Rises
then your nerves are so enlightened that
you can feel it all right you might be
already getting it and think sir
no no no not she is your mother she's
your individual mother who gives you
your second birth she knows everything
about you
she has recorded everything and she does
it very gently see when you were born
your mother took all the pains upon
herself isn't it and in the same way
this Kundalini does the job but people
have frightened because perhaps maybe
they don't want it's the evil force I
think those who have frightened against
Kundalini because they don't know how to
do it or maybe they don't want people to
achieve their realisation I can't
understand those people as I was telling
you today in the 16th century guru
nanaka then kuvira and all these others
ramadasa toka rama all of them nobody
has said it's dangerous
on the contrary ramadasa was asked how
much time does it take for Kundalini to
rise he used the word instance with
touch channel that's the moment that
moment he said that Shannon that moment
so but he said there's a condition the
one who wants should be anxious to have
it and the one who gives should be an
authority not authority from some
University or anything but authority in
spirituality yes
no see it is alright do it
but do I do all that you have to be
comfortably sitting in your chair and
you'll get your realization you don't
have to go to Himalayas to stand on your
head
[Music]
you